- [Instructor] So now we're going to briefly talk
about the MVC and template patterns
and how you would go about using them
in the Spring framework.
Like you to jump over to the ID
and before I get too deep into this
I do want to say that I'm going to be very simplistic
on the surface, and I highly encourage you
to take a look at my course:
Learning Spring with Spring Boot
if you want more details on how the MVC pattern works.
But for now, we'll go ahead and jump into our base class.
We're going to start our design patterns app application.
We're going to add a new bean
and our bean is going to be of type rest template
which is going to be the template pattern
that we will use for this video.
And it will simply return a new rest template.
Simple enough.
Let's go ahead and open up our controller.
We're going to add a couple methods here.
Now the first one that we're going to do is our example
of an MVC.
We've actually done this a couple of times
but before we get into that,
we need to wire in our president repository.
And we're going to use this to populate our model.
Now because we're doing restful web services,
the model is going to be the data itself
that is going to be displayed.
And the view in this case is going to be JSON.
So president's slash ID is where we want to respond to.
And for this method we will return a president entity.
And we're going to call this one getPresById
and we're going to pass in a path variable of type long
that is our ID.
And the simple implementation of this method
is going to return a model that comes
from our president repository, findById
and we'll pass in the ID that is called to the method.
But we also need to add a get to it
because it's an optional interface now.
So, in this MVC use case,
the model is our president entity,
the view is JSON, and the controller is this method
that we just implemented.
So now let's show you how to use the template.
So once again we're going to auto wire in a bean
and this time we're going to auto wire in our rest template.
Go ahead and import that in.
And now we're going to do a get mapping
on presidentContact/.
And we will do a public contact, getPresContactById
and once again we're going to send in a path variable
of type long, ID.
Now, if you've ever used HTTP entity
to go through into a rest template call,
hopefully you'll see why this template pattern
makes this so efficient.
As a matter of fact, in order to make this work,
we're going to do the following:
we're going to get a president entity
from this .restTemplate.getForEntity,
I'm going to bring this to a new line here.
So we're going to pass in local host
8080 slash presidents slash curly brace ID.
We're going to get a PresidentEntity.class
and we're going to pass in the ID as a value.
And finally,
this is going to return a response
so we need to get the body out of the response.
So instead of doing everything we normally
have to do for HTTP entity,
we simply called rest template, get for entity,
passed in the URL, passed in the type of object we
were expecting out, and passed in the value,
got a response to which we pulled the body out,
which will be a president entity.
And to prove to you that it's a president entity,
we are going to return a new contact builder.
And to that contact builder we're going to say
set first name equal to our entity .getFirstName.
.setLastName equal to our entity .getLastName.
And then .setEmailAddress once again equal to our entity
.getEmailAddress and then we will finish it up
by calling buildContact,
and now we can return our base.
So let's go ahead and start up our application
and we're going to do our main application class
so we get the controller to run
and while that's starting up,
I'm going to jump into terminal.
Now once again, you can do this with curl,
but I'm going to use the HTTP ie,
and I'm going to call to local host 8080
slash presidents slash 15.
Now this is going to return
our actual president object.
And you'll see we get the e-mail first name last name.
So this is our view.
This is the JSON view of the model
that is the president.
Now I'm going to do the same thing,
but instead of calling presidents,
I'm going to call president contact.
And in this case now, I've done a rest call
that in turn did a rest call using rest template
back to the same in point
and now I've got a filtered view
because I've done a two step process.
So this is the MVC pattern
and then a template pattern
being used with a MVC framework of Spring.